## Plugin configuration options

### RRD services

__RRD cache daemon service socket__ (read only)  
Displays the UNIX socket on which __rrdcached__ is providing database creation
and update services.
This value is defined in `systemd/service.conf`.

__RRD chart generation daemon service port__ (read only)  
Displays the TCP port on which __rrdchartd__ is providing chart rendering
services.
This value is defined in `systemd/service.conf`.

### RRD database options

__Directory in which to store RRD databases__ (read only)  
Displays the directory in which all databases associated with the plugin are
stored.
This value is defined in `systemd/service.conf`.

__Database update interval in seconds__  
Defines the number of seconds between database updates and hence the frequency
at which sensor channels on the host Signal K server are sampled.
The default value is 10 seconds.
Decreasing this value much below its default may render the logging system
unstable - mileage depends principally upon resource availability on the host.

__RRD database options__  

__&x2610; Plug data holes__  
Replace missing values in the data samples with a copy of the last real value.
Default value is NO.

__&x2610; Recreate databases if plugin list changes__  
If the sensor list is updated in a way which would modify the structure of
an existing database or databases, or require the creation of a new database,
then silently implement the necessary changes.
Default value is YES.

__&x2610; Recreate all databases now__  
Recreate all databases immediately.
Default value is NO.
Note that this is a one-shot option which will reset to the default after
restart.

### Chart options

__&x2610; Generate charts__  
Make the plugin generate charts at regular intervals.
Default is YES.
If you disable this option the plugin will never generate a chart: this might
be both useful and efficient if you are able to generate charts on demand by
calling __rrdchartd__ directly (see below for details on how to do this).

__Directory for generated charts__ (read only)  
Displays the directory in which __rrdchartd__ will place rendered charts.
This value is defined in `systemd/service.conf`.

__Color to use for chart canvas__
RGB color to use for the canvas on all rendered charts.
Default is #000000 (black).

__Color to use for chart background__
RGB color to use for the background on all rendered charts.
Default is #000000 (black).

__Color to use for chart foreground__
RGB color to use for the foreground on all rendered charts.
Default is #804040 (dull red).

### Logging options

The plugin can log details of its operation, both normal and abnormal, to
either or both of the system logging service (usually to `/var/log/syslog`)
and the Signal K Node server console.
All output messages are described below in the __Log messages__ section.

These options allow control over what messages are generated where.

__Report the following events to Signal K server console__  

__&x2610; Database updates__
Default value is YES.

__&x2610; Notifications__  
Default value is YES.

__&x2610; Warnings__  
Default value is NO.

__&x2610; Errors__  
Default value is YES.

__Report the following events to the system log__  

__&x2610; Database updates__
Default value is NO.

__&x2610; Notifications__  
Default value is NO.

__&x2610; Warnings__  
Default value is YES.

__&x2610; Errors__  
Default value is YES.

### Sensors

__Initialise sensor list using this regex__  
A regular expression which is used to select the Signal K paths that are
used to initialise the plugin.
Default value is __*__ (to select all paths).
You will probably want to change the default to suit your requirement.
Changing this value will result in the sensor list being re-initialised: if the
new list contains sensor paths from the old list then the settings for
individual sensors will be carried over, but if the new list doesn't contain
any existing sensors then all the previous settings will be lost.
Note that once a sensor list has been built it can be pruned by hand ands
changes will not be overwritten until either the regex is changed or the
following option is used to force a re-scan of the server.

__&x2610; Re-initialise sensor list now__  
Forces the sensor list to be re-built (use this option to rebuild the sensor
list by re-applying the same regex).
Default value is NO.
Note that this is a one-shot option which will reset to the default after
restart.

__Sensor list__  

__&#xbb; Sensor path__   
Displays the Signal K pathname of this sensor.
This value is a unique identifier supplied by the Signal K server and cannot
be changed.

__&#xbb; Sensor name__  
A user-friendly name to be used for this sensor in all output generated by
the plugin.
Default value is a mangled version of the sensor path and you will almost
certainly want to change it.

__&#xbb; Multiplier for sensor values__  
A multiplier that will be used to scale values reported by Signal K for this
sensor before they are written to a database.
The database engine used by the plugin is tuned for handling integer values
and to exploit this Signal K values which are returned as small decimal values
will need to be scaled.
This especially impacts values like tank levels which are returned as ratios
in the range 0..1: a simple solution in this case is to use a mutiplier of
100 to yield a percentage.
Default value is 1.

__&#xbb; Databases which include this sensor__  
A space separated list of database names which should include this sensor's
data.
Default value is a name derived from the first part of the sensor's path
which ensures, for example, that all tank level data ends up in at least the
database `tanks.rrd`.

__&#xbb; Display groups which include this sensor__  
A space separated list of display groups which should include this sensor's
data.
Default value is a name derived from the first part of the sensor's path
which ensures, for example, that all tank level data ends up in at least the
display group `tanks`.

__&#xbb; Color to use when rendering this sensor__  
The color to be used for this sensor's data in all chart output.
Default is value drawn sequentially from a palette of colours designed to be
easily distinguishable one from another.
The assigned colors have no mnemonic or semantic value.

__&#xbb; Sensor options__  

__&x2610; Is stackable__  
Asserts whether or not the data associated with this sensor could be stacked
in a meaningful way in a _stacked chart_: this does not mean that the data
will be stacked, just that it could be.
Default value is NO.
